王岐山在纽约时报撰文谈中欧经济合作新华网北京5月6日电 (李保东)《纽约时报》网站5月发表了中国国务院副总理王岐山撰写的题为《遥远的邻居》的文章。文章说中欧应当共同反对贸易保护主义以应对经济危机，应当本着合作的精神，妥善解决贸易分歧和争端，稳步扩大的共同利益。在文章中，王岐山表示，中国与欧盟，作为世界上两个主要的经济体和利益相关者，理应在第二次中欧高级经济对话会上以负责任的态度，清晰地表明共同反对贸易保护主义的承诺。王岐山说："贸易自由化是经济增长的发动机，它已成为经济全球化的强大推动力，并使世界各地的人们受益。相反，贸易保护主义维护了一国的利益，却损害了其他国家的利益，最终导致相互报复。"王岐山指出，二十世纪三十年代的经济大萧条时期，贸易保护主义让世界经济付出了沉重的代价，导致世界贸易量萎缩了三分之二。"我们应该确保不再犯相同的错误。""中欧应该充分利用中欧高级对话平台，加强交流与合作，共同反对贸易保护主义。这将更好地让我们能够应对当前的危机，促进经济的复苏和增长，也将加强经济全球化趋势，促进双方贸易进一步发展。"王岐山还说："中国坚定地致力于改革开放。自从中国成功的加入世界贸易组织，中国市场变得更加开放，贸易自由度更加自由。"目前，中国的关税总水平只有9.8%。中国的工业品平均关税只有8.9%，在发展中国家中最低。进口农产品关税只有15.2%，这不仅低于其他发展中国家，也远低于许多发达国家。王岐山指出，中国的服务业开放水平已经接近发达国家的平均水平。中国已经采取稳步措施改进市场经济体制和法律体制。特别是在知识产权保护、产品质量与食品安全、环境保护与劳动保障等方面已经取得了显著的进步。中国还采取了具体措施应对贸易保护主义，中国政府近日派遣了赴欧美的企业采购团。王岐山希望，中欧双方应当本着合作的精神，妥善解决贸易分歧和争端，并都需要适当照顾自己的利益。"但更重要的是，双方都应适应对方的关切，充分考虑对方国情和所处的发展阶段，稳步扩大我们的共同利益。"王岐山还特别指出："双方应该加强对话和磋商，不采取贸易保护措施，避免贸易问题政治化。中国希望欧盟不带偏见的客观评价中国的经济条件，尽可能较快承认中国的完全市场经济地位。"他强调，欧盟现在是中国第一大贸易伙伴，中国是欧盟第二大贸易伙伴。双方应当进一步相互开放市场。中国将继续降低市场准入门槛，改善贸易和投资环境，鼓励中国企业增加来自欧盟的订单和进口。我们希望欧盟放松高科技产品的对华出口限制，加强与中国在清洁能源、新能源和可再生能源方面的合作，支持我们中小企业的合作"我们双方应该更加努力，更新《欧共体与中国贸易经济合作协议》。以下为《纽约时报》刊登的英文原文：Distant NeighborsBy WANG QISHANThe most pressing task facing all countries in the world today is to restore global economic growth as soon as possible. Yet it is worrisome to note that the surge of trade protectionism has made the prospects of the already fragile world economy even worse。China and the European Union, two major economies and stakeholders in the world, should take a responsible attitude and demonstrate their common, clear commitment against trade protectionism at the second China-E.U. high-level economic dialogue。Trade liberalization is the engine of economic growth. It has served as a strong propeller of economic globalization and benefited people around the world. On the contrary, trade protectionism — featuring the pursuit of benefits for one country at the expense of others — will only lead to retaliation. It serves the interest of no one。The world economy paid a heavy price for the prevalence of trade protectionism during the Great Depression in the 1930s, which led to the contraction of global trade by two thirds. We should make sure that the same mistake is not repeated。Europe is the birthplace of free trade theory, and the E.U. is the product of successful free trade practices. The removal of trade barriers promoted formation of a single European market and enhanced development and prosperity in Europe. As a result, the E.U. has grown into the largest economy in the world today。China is firmly committed to reform and to opening up. Since its accession to the World Trade Organization, China’s market has become much more open and its trade greatly liberalized. The current overall tariff level of China is only 9.8 percent. Its average tariff on industrial products is only 8.9 percent, the lowest among all developing countries. Its tariff on imported agricultural products is only 15.2 percent, which is not only lower than other developing countries but also far below that of many developed countries。The openness of China’s trade in services has reached a level close to that of an average developed country. China has taken steady steps to improve its market economic system and legal system. In particular, it has made remarkable progress in intellectual-property rights protection, product quality and food safety, environmental protection and labor security. China has also taken concrete actions against trade protectionism — the Chinese government recently sent Chinese enterprises on procurement missions to Europe and the United States。The economies of China and the E.U. have much to offer each other and our two-way trade holds a huge potential. The E.U. is now China’s largest trading partner and China is the second largest trading partner of the E.U。China and the E.U. should make full use of the platform presented by the high-level economic dialogue to strengthen communication and cooperation and jointly oppose trade protectionism. This would better enable us to tackle the current crisis and promote economic recovery and growth. It would also reinforce the trend of economic globalization and facilitates a further growth of two-way trade。The two sides should work actively to put in place the agreement reached at the G-20 summit in London, promote early, comprehensive and balanced outcome in the WTO Doha round negotiations and uphold an open, fair and equitable international trading regime. An early conclusion of the Doha round is of symbolic significance to curbing protectionism。The two sides should further open markets to each other. China will continue to lower the threshold for market access, improve trade and investment environment and encourage Chinese enterprises to increase procurement and imports from Europe。We hope the E.U. will relax restrictions on the exports of high-tech products to China, enhance cooperation with China on the development and application of clean energy, new energy and renewable energy and support cooperation among our small and medium-sized enterprises. Meanwhile, our two sides should step up efforts to update the E.E.C.-China Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement。The two sides should work in a cooperative spirit and properly resolve trade differences and disputes. Each side needs to take proper care of its own interests. Yet, more importantly, both sides should accommodate the concerns of the other, taking into full account national conditions and their stage of development, and steadily broaden the scope of our common interests。We should strengthen dialogue and consultation, refrain from taking protectionist measures and avoid politicizing trade issues. China hopes that the E.U. will evaluate the conditions of the Chinese economy in an objective and unprejudiced manner and recognize China’s full market economy status as soon as possible。Trade liberalization was, is and will continue to be the only way to global economic prosperity. The Chinese side is ready to work with the E.U. and take effective measures to oppose trade protectionism, promote better growth of China-E.U. trade and jointly move the world economy out of the current difficulties at an early date。新华网北京5月6日电 (李保东)《纽约时报》网站5月发表了中国国务院副总理王岐山撰写的题为《遥远的邻居》的文章。文章说中欧应当共同反对贸易保护主义以应对经济危机，应当本着合作的精神，妥善解决贸易分歧和争端，稳步扩大的共同利益。在文章中，王岐山表示，中国与欧盟，作为世界上两个主要的经济体和利益相关者，理应在第二次中欧高级经济对话会上以负责任的态度，清晰地表明共同反对贸易保护主义的承诺。王岐山说："贸易自由化是经济增长的发动机，它已成为经济全球化的强大推动力，并使世界各地的人们受益。相反，贸易保护主义维护了一国的利益，却损害了其他国家的利益，最终导致相互报复。"王岐山指出，二十世纪三十年代的经济大萧条时期，贸易保护主义让世界经济付出了沉重的代价，导致世界贸易量萎缩了三分之二。"我们应该确保不再犯相同的错误。""中欧应该充分利用中欧高级对话平台，加强交流与合作，共同反对贸易保护主义。这将更好地让我们能够应对当前的危机，促进经济的复苏和增长，也将加强经济全球化趋势，促进双方贸易进一步发展。"王岐山还说："中国坚定地致力于改革开放。自从中国成功的加入世界贸易组织，中国市场变得更加开放，贸易自由度更加自由。"目前，中国的关税总水平只有9.8%。中国的工业品平均关税只有8.9%，在发展中国家中最低。进口农产品关税只有15.2%，这不仅低于其他发展中国家，也远低于许多发达国家。王岐山指出，中国的服务业开放水平已经接近发达国家的平均水平。中国已经采取稳步措施改进市场经济体制和法律体制。特别是在知识产权保护、产品质量与食品安全、环境保护与劳动保障等方面已经取得了显著的进步。中国还采取了具体措施应对贸易保护主义，中国政府近日派遣了赴欧美的企业采购团。王岐山希望，中欧双方应当本着合作的精神，妥善解决贸易分歧和争端，并都需要适当照顾自己的利益。"但更重要的是，双方都应适应对方的关切，充分考虑对方国情和所处的发展阶段，稳步扩大我们的共同利益。"王岐山还特别指出："双方应该加强对话和磋商，不采取贸易保护措施，避免贸易问题政治化。中国希望欧盟不带偏见的客观评价中国的经济条件，尽可能较快承认中国的完全市场经济地位。"他强调，欧盟现在是中国第一大贸易伙伴，中国是欧盟第二大贸易伙伴。双方应当进一步相互开放市场。中国将继续降低市场准入门槛，改善贸易和投资环境，鼓励中国企业增加来自欧盟的订单和进口。我们希望欧盟放松高科技产品的对华出口限制，加强与中国在清洁能源、新能源和可再生能源方面的合作，支持我们中小企业的合作"我们双方应该更加努力，更新《欧共体与中国贸易经济合作协议》。以下为《纽约时报》刊登的英文原文：Distant NeighborsBy WANG QISHANThe most pressing task facing all countries in the world today is to restore global economic growth as soon as possible. Yet it is worrisome to note that the surge of trade protectionism has made the prospects of the already fragile world economy even worse。China and the European Union, two major economies and stakeholders in the world, should take a responsible attitude and demonstrate their common, clear commitment against trade protectionism at the second China-E.U. high-level economic dialogue。Trade liberalization is the engine of economic growth. It has served as a strong propeller of economic globalization and benefited people around the world. On the contrary, trade protectionism — featuring the pursuit of benefits for one country at the expense of others — will only lead to retaliation. It serves the interest of no one。The world economy paid a heavy price for the prevalence of trade protectionism during the Great Depression in the 1930s, which led to the contraction of global trade by two thirds. We should make sure that the same mistake is not repeated。Europe is the birthplace of free trade theory, and the E.U. is the product of successful free trade practices. The removal of trade barriers promoted formation of a single European market and enhanced development and prosperity in Europe. As a result, the E.U. has grown into the largest economy in the world today。China is firmly committed to reform and to opening up. Since its accession to the World Trade Organization, China’s market has become much more open and its trade greatly liberalized. The current overall tariff level of China is only 9.8 percent. Its average tariff on industrial products is only 8.9 percent, the lowest among all developing countries. Its tariff on imported agricultural products is only 15.2 percent, which is not only lower than other developing countries but also far below that of many developed countries。The openness of China’s trade in services has reached a level close to that of an average developed country. China has taken steady steps to improve its market economic system and legal system. In particular, it has made remarkable progress in intellectual-property rights protection, product quality and food safety, environmental protection and labor security. China has also taken concrete actions against trade protectionism — the Chinese government recently sent Chinese enterprises on procurement missions to Europe and the United States。The economies of China and the E.U. have much to offer each other and our two-way trade holds a huge potential. The E.U. is now China’s largest trading partner and China is the second largest trading partner of the E.U。China and the E.U. should make full use of the platform presented by the high-level economic dialogue to strengthen communication and cooperation and jointly oppose trade protectionism. This would better enable us to tackle the current crisis and promote economic recovery and growth. It would also reinforce the trend of economic globalization and facilitates a further growth of two-way trade。The two sides should work actively to put in place the agreement reached at the G-20 summit in London, promote early, comprehensive and balanced outcome in the WTO Doha round negotiations and uphold an open, fair and equitable international trading regime. An early conclusion of the Doha round is of symbolic significance to curbing protectionism。The two sides should further open markets to each other. China will continue to lower the threshold for market access, improve trade and investment environment and encourage Chinese enterprises to increase procurement and imports from Europe。We hope the E.U. will relax restrictions on the exports of high-tech products to China, enhance cooperation with China on the development and application of clean energy, new energy and renewable energy and support cooperation among our small and medium-sized enterprises. Meanwhile, our two sides should step up efforts to update the E.E.C.-China Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement。The two sides should work in a cooperative spirit and properly resolve trade differences and disputes. Each side needs to take proper care of its own interests. Yet, more importantly, both sides should accommodate the concerns of the other, taking into full account national conditions and their stage of development, and steadily broaden the scope of our common interests。We should strengthen dialogue and consultation, refrain from taking protectionist measures and avoid politicizing trade issues. China hopes that the E.U. will evaluate the conditions of the Chinese economy in an objective and unprejudiced manner and recognize China’s full market economy status as soon as possible。Trade liberalization was, is and will continue to be the only way to global economic prosperity. The Chinese side is ready to work with the E.U. and take effective measures to oppose trade protectionism, promote better growth of China-E.U. trade and jointly move the world economy out of the current difficulties at an early date。